AWS exporter terraform module (#371)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/iac/terraform/modules/aws-exporter-module.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# AWS Exporter Module

> The Port Terraform module deploys the Port AWS Exporter in your AWS account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AWS exporter module is used to deploy the Port AWS Exporter in your AWS account.
```

   ```bash
   export PORT_CLIENT_ID="YOUR_PORT_CLIENT_ID"
   export PORT_CLIENT_SECRET="YOUR_PORT_CLIENT_SECRET"
   ```

## Deploying the exporter

1. Create the AWS exporter [config.json](../../../aws/aws.md#exporter-configjson-file) file.

2. Add the module to your HCL configuration. You can use this simple HCL.

   <details>
   <summary>HCL example</summary>

   ```yaml
   module "port_aws_exporter" {
      source = "git::https://github.com/port-labs/terraform-aws-port-exporter.git"

      # Variables
      config_json_file     = "PATH_TO_YOUR_CONFIG_FILE"
   }
   ```

   </details>

### Running the module

After configuring the module, run the following Terraform commands:

```bash
terraform init       # Initialize the Terraform configuration.
terraform plan       # Preview the changes to be applied
terraform apply      # Apply the changes and provision the resources in your AWS account, providing the path to your variables file using the --var-file option.
```

### Variables

You can configure and customize the AWS exporter using built-in module variables:

<details>
<summary>View all variables</summary>

> `stack_name` - The name of the CloudFormation stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`stack_name` - the name of the CloudFormation stack.
```

> `secret_name` - Secret name for Port credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`secret_name` - secret name for Port credentials.
```

You can also provide an existing secret instead using the `custom_port_credentials_secret_arn` variable.

> `create_bucket` - Flag to control if to create a new bucket for the exporter configuration or use an existing one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`create_bucket` - whether to create a new bucket for the exporter configuration or use an existing one.
```

> `bucket_name` - Bucket name for the exporter configuration. Lambda also use it to write intermediate temporary files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`bucket_name` - bucket name for the exporter configuration and intermediate files.
```

> `config_json_file` - Required, path to the configuration JSON file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`config_json_file` - (required) path to the configuration JSON file.
```

> `function_name` - The name of the AWS Lambda function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`function_name` - the name of the AWS Lambda function.
```

> `iam_policy_name` - Policy name for Port exporter's role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`iam_policy_name` - policy name for Port exporter's role.
```

> `custom_port_credentials_secret_arn` - Optional Secret ARN for Port credentials (client id and client secret).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`custom_port_credentials_secret_arn` - (optional) secret ARN for AWS secrets manager secret that stores Port's credentials (client id and client secret).
```

> The secret value should be in the pattern: `{"id":"<PORT_CLIENT_ID>","clientSecret":"<PORT_CLIENT_SECRET>"}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The secret value should be in the format: `{"id":"<PORT_CLIENT_ID>","clientSecret":"<PORT_CLIENT_SECRET>"}`
```

> `lambda_policy_file` - Optional path to a AWS policy json file to grant to the Lambda function. If not passed, using the default exporter policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`lambda_policy_file` - (optional) path to an AWS policy json file to grant to the Lambda function. If not passed, uses the default exporter policies.
```

`events_queue_name` - The name of the events queue to the Port exporter.

> `schedule_state` - 'ENABLED' or 'DISABLED'. We recommend to enable it only after one successful run. Also make sure to update the schedule expression interval to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`schedule_state` - `ENABLED` or `DISABLED`. It is recommended to enable it only after one successful run. Also make sure to update the schedule expression interval to be
```

> longer than the execution time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
longer than the exporter execution time.
```

> `schedule_expression` - Required schedule expression to define an event schedule for the exporter,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`schedule_expression` - (required) schedule expression to define an event schedule for the exporter,
```

according to the following [spec](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/services-cloudwatchevents-expressions.html).

</details>

:::tip LAMBDA FUNCTION IAM POLICY
By default, the exporter will be granted with the [default exporter policy](https://github.com/port-labs/terraform-aws-port-exporter/blob/main/defaults/policy.json).

If you wish to pass your custom [AWS policy](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies.html),

> create a new policy.json file, and pass it's path to the `lambda_policy_file` variable.

Reviewer: This line should not be separated from the previous one, see image
![image](https://github.com/port-labs/port-docs/assets/9868797/b55f42a0-dcab-4a8f-ac8b-97dacd94606c)

:::

### Exporter CloudFormation Stack

> After finishing the installation, you should see the Port exporter deployment in your CloudFormation Stacks with the name

Reviewer: Add a note block indicating that the stack will be deployed to the AWS region configured in the user's AWS CLI

`serverlessrepo-<exporter_stack_name>` - based on the `stack_name` variable.

### Deleting the exporter

To delete the AWS exporter module. you can simply run:

```bash
terraform destroy
```

## Further Information

> - See the [AWS exporter docs](https://docs.getport.io/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/aws/) for further information of the exporter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- See the [AWS exporter docs](https://docs.getport.io/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/aws/) for further information about the exporter.
```
